
EYE BY DIRECT 

Project by :
Nameeruddin
Mohammad Talha
Hafiza hafsa ahmed

(Process Description)

ORDERING SPECTICALS 
After receiving the order first check the availability of stock of specific spectacles choose by customer. 
If there is need for the stock then require raw material and then start manufacturing and then conform the order. 
If the stock is there then we just retrieve the product from warehouse, conform the order, ship them and make 
invoice of the product which is shipped and then archive the order. The order is full filled.

DELIVERY
After conforming the order, there is two ways to send the orders to the customers with safety or otherwise it will 
be rejected by customer. In order to avoid these situations, after the confirmation of order, get the Address where 
the order has been placed from. Shipped the product to that place and if the order gets cancelled on some reason, 
then the safety of product is mandatory and making sure that it’s not been opened. Once order is placed to the customer, 
then remove the product from invoice, and collect the payment. If product is cancelled, then the product is reimbursed 
to the customer again.

INVENTORY MANAGEMENT 
Spectacles  are delivered to the receiving area of the warehouse, finished products for resale (vendor) then Indirect 
materials that support the daily operations of a business but not production then makes sure products are reviewed, 
sorted, and stored on shelves in special stock areas. Product availability must be checked, inventory and helps minimize 
the chance of stockouts, dead stock, missed or duplicated orders, and risk exposure due to theft and fraud. Once orders 
are placed by customers, either internal or external. 
The required goods are pulled from stock area from supplier, directly to the retailer/customer/end user (finished goods), 
or routed to the appropriate business unit/department (internal requests). Records are updated and shared with all 
relevant stakeholders. Inventory levels are used to restock goods and materials as needed. For Just-in-Time systems, 
usage data may be analyzed to create more accurate data.

